Fusion Substitute Monster
A Fusion Substitute Monster (融ゆう合ごう素そ材ざい代だい用ようモンスター Yūgō Sozai Daiyō Monsutā) is a monster with an effect that allows it to replace a single specifically named Fusion Material for the Fusion Summon of a Fusion Monster (with the exception of "Shaddoll Core", which substitues for Attributes instead), as long as the other monster(s) used are the correct one(s).

Official Wording
This card can be used as a substitute for any 1 Fusion Material whose name is specifically listed on the Fusion Monster Card, but the other Fusion Material(s) must be correct.

— The latest version of the wording used on Fusion Substitute Monsters in the TCG.

Limitations
Fusion Substitute Monsters cannot be used for:

Fusion Monsters that can only be Special Summoned from the Extra Deck by removing the Fusion Materials listed on it from your field without using "Polymerization" (Contact Fusion). Such as with the "Neos", "Gladiator Beast", and "A-to-Z" Fusion Monsters.
Fusion Monsters that have a strict Fusion Summon condition.
Any monster in the Hex-Sealed Fusion series can be used as Fusion Material for a Special Summon with its own Ignition Effect, even for the Special Summon of such Fusion Monsters, since this Special Summon is not a Fusion Summon.
Fusion Monsters that do not specifically name any of their Fusion Materials, such as "Ojama Knight" or "Evil HERO Dark Gaia".
If the Fusion Monster has both specifically named and unnamed Fusion Materials (like "Ultimate Ancient Gear Golem"), then a Fusion Substitute Monster can be used, but only for the specifically named Fusion Material.
A Fusion Summon which is already using another Fusion Substitute Monster.
An effect that is treated as Fusion Summon, but specified its effect's procedure otherwise (even if there is a specific monster name, such as "Cyberdark Impact!"
The effect that allows Fusion Substitute Monsters to replace a Fusion Material has no classification. It applies on the field (even while face-down), in the hand, and in the Graveyard. It does not apply while in the Main Deck or while banished, so this effect cannot be used for "Future Fusion" or "Parallel World Fusion".

Treated as alternate name
Some cards can replace Fusion Materials by treating their name as that of a Fusion Material.

For example, "Elemental HERO Prisma" can send a Fusion Material listed on a Fusion Monster card from the Deck to the Graveyard to treat its name as that card's. Since it is being treated as that card's name and not replacing a Fusion Material, it is not a Fusion Substitute Monster and treated as being correct, so can be used for the Fusion Summon of monsters with strict Fusion Materials, such as "Cyber End Dragon" and "Cyber Blader". Also, for Fusion Summons in which Fusion Substitute Monsters are valid, it can be used in the same Fusion Summon as one.