Pendulum Summon
A Pendulum Summon (Japanese ペンデュラム召しょう喚かん Pendyuramu Shōkan; usually abbreviated Ｐペンデュラム召しょう喚かん) is a form of Special Summon introduced in Yu-Gi-Oh! ARC-V.[1] Pendulum Summoning allows the player to Summon multiple monsters simultaneously.[2][3]

Mechanics
Once per turn, during the Main Phase, if the turn player has a card with a Pendulum Scale in each of their two Pendulum Zones (for a total of 2 cards), that player can Pendulum Summon any number of monsters from their hand, and/or any number of face-up Pendulum Monsters in their Extra Deck, whose individual Levels or the Level written in the condition, if any, of an Xyz Pendulum Monster [4] are exclusively between the Pendulum Scales of the cards in their Pendulum Zones (i.e. monsters whose individual Levels/Ranks are between the Pendulum Scales and not the same as the Pendulum Scales' values).

When performing a Pendulum Summon, Pendulum Monster(s) that are face-up in the Extra Deck must be Summoned to an unoccupied Main Monster Zone that a Link Monster points to or an Extra Monster Zone. Monsters that are Pendulum Summoned from the hand are Summoned to any Main Monster Zones.

Advanced Rulings
Due to Levels and Ranks restrictions, no monsters can be Pendulum Summoned if cards in Pendulum Zones have Pendulum Scales that differ by one or less (i.e. 4 and 4, 3 and 4). However, this has no impact on Pendulum Effects.

A Pendulum Summon is a built-in Special Summon, so it can be negated by cards like "Solemn Warning" and "Thunder King Rai-Oh"; however, if more than 1 monster would be Pendulum Summoned at the same time, cards like "Black Horn of Heaven" (which specify they can only be activated when exactly 1 monster would be Summoned) cannot be activated.

Pendulum Summoning is unrelated to the effects of the Pendulum Monsters in the Pendulum Zones, and can be performed even if their effects are negated (such as due to the effect of "Vector Pendulum, the Dracoverlord").

Anime
When a Pendulum Summon is performed in the anime, a portal opens between the two Pendulum Zones and streaks of light emerge from these zones, representing the monsters. The color of the light streaks appears to depend on the number of monsters that are being Summoned; three monsters for example results in a green, blue and a red streak, while two results in a green and a blue streak.

On occasion, the energy changes. Declan's monsters vary between a surge of purple light or purple streaks, whereas "Mayosenju Daibak" appears from the portal in the form of a green tornado. In addition, Yuya Sakaki's Pendulum Summons have an enlarged version of his pendant swinging between the zones.

When a Pendulum Summon of five monsters is performed, the colors representing the monsters merge together into a multi-colored spiral of light before appearing on the field, symbolizing the powerful Summon.Manga
In the manga, when a Pendulum Summon occurs, Yuya's pendant breaks and a monster appears from it.